out of their busy afternoon to
attend the Directory Services talk.
in the Mac OS X Server presentation,
you might have heard a
little bit more about.
I'll be talking and later on I'll
be inviting up a coworker of mine,
Jason Townsen, who will give you a little
more detail on developing a
Directory plug-in and a demo.
What we're going to cover today
is what are Directory Services?
How are we using
Directory Services in Apple software?
What do the APIs look like?
What's plug-in development look like?
We'll give you a little demo and then
hopefully cover some questions and
answers at the end of the session.
The concept of Directory Services arose
about three years ago when my
management asked me to figure
out what Apple's directory story
was moving forward for Mac OS X Server.
And one of the key pieces of feedback we
had from our customers was they no longer
wanted to use just an Apple proprietary
database like users and groups.
They wanted at least the option to
integrate with an existing or perhaps
a proprietary directory system.
So the concept is relatively simple:
allow Apple software
to use customer data.
The implementation,
all of us are engineers in
the room or have seen this,
engineers draw boxes,
is fairly straightforward.
We're going to build an abstraction API,
we're going to put Apple services
on top of that abstraction,
and that abstraction will
grant access to customer data.
The architecture,
a little more flushed out.
We have Apple software
based on Directory Services.
We have developer software that
could be based on Directory Services.
And we provide plug-ins to two
Directory Services that Apple provides.
The primary Directory Service in
Mac OS X is NetInfo,
and that's our default plug-in.
We also provide read-only
access to LDAPv2.
And part of the reason some
of you are in the audience,
hopefully, is so that you can develop a
Directory Access plug-in for a
Directory Service that you can make
money on or possibly help your site.
The runtime of the API leverages
the Mac OS X architecture.
A Directory Service client using
Directory Service API calls
into a Mac OS X framework.
That framework uses Mach IPC to
communicate with the daemon.
The daemon then talks to plug-ins
to handle various requests.
The reply comes back up through Mach IPC.
It's very secure and leverages
the Mac OS X architecture.
Status since last year.
I've given this talk now,
I think this is my third year
up on stage talking about this,
so it'll be familiar if you were
here the previous couple of years.
Hopefully this is new for some of you.
What have we done since last year?
Directory Access APIs are
included in Mac OS X Desktop.
This is not a server-only technology.
You can use Directory Services in
the Desktop.
They are located in the
system library frameworks,
directory service.framework.
The API manifests itself
in 5C header files.
Going over header files is
laborious and sometimes boring,
so they're there.
I'd encourage you to review them.
The Directory plug-in APIs are
included in functionally
the Desktop and the Server.
This is something you can
use in either location,
although the Server leverages them
more heavily than the Desktop does.
There's also an SDK.
The term SDK is a
little over-explanatory.
It's overused.
What we have is a collection of some
sample code and some helper code.
That's available from Tom Weier.
Everything you need to actually develop
and use Directory Services is already
in Mac OS X with developer tools.
We are writing some sample code,
so the SDK includes the sample
code and the documentation
in one convenient place.
What's new since last year is we
have the Directory Setup application,
which we only alluded to last year.
You'll be getting a demo of that later.
We have a search policy.
We've received some feedback.
Directory Services embodies the concept
of a search policy for authentication.
What directories do we look into when
the OS wants to authenticate a user?
We've also added a contact search policy,
which we think could be integrated
into PIMs or email clients.
That search policy is
configured separately and
could search public databases.
It provides a lightweight way
for you to provide a fine user
functionality into your applications.
We will also be releasing, via the SDK,
DS Wrappers,
which is some C++ sample code that
was developed inside of the group
that makes it a little easier to
approach the Directory Service APIs.
All of that will be bundled
up and made available.
Contact Tom Weyer.
I think we'll post it to the website.
Okay.
What is Directory Setup?
Well, Directory Services come out of the
box and the first thing you need
to know is if you're using NetInfo,
you don't need to do a thing.
It just works.
Out of the box,
no one needs to visit Directory Setup,
no one needs to modify anything.
Directory Setup is for those
clients that wish to use a
directory other than NetInfo.
And Directory Setup allows
you to control what directory
systems Mac OS X interacts with.
It's located in Applications Utilities.
You can enable and disable
individual directory plug-ins.
Right now there's only two,
the NetInfo and the LDAP.
If third parties add more,
this is where you as a system
administrator would turn those
third party plug-ins on or off.
And it also provides the ability
for you to put up your own human
interface for configuring your plug-in.
You'll see more about that
later and I believe after this
I have a sample screenshot.
Yes, if you look at the screen,
this is a screenshot from Mac OS X.
The lock is in the
lower left-hand corner.
This is a secure thing.
Only the system administrator
can change these settings.
And we provide the two standard plug-ins,
NetInfo and LDAP.
If you wrote a third party
plug-in or developed a plug-in,
it would be listed here.
The user could select your plug-in
and click on the Configure button
there in the bottom center.
And that would launch a human interface
or Cocoa or Carbon application that
you wrote which puts up your own user
interface for configuring your plug-in.
The three tabs across
the top of Services,
Authentication and Contacts.
The Services are for
controlling the plug-ins.
Authentication controls the
authentication search policy.
allows the user to configure
the contacts search policy.
What do the APIs include?
They include full
read/write capabilities.
You can do, if your Directory plug-in
supports read/write,
you can do anything with a particular
Directory through these APIs.
Mac OS X Server's administration
software is based on these APIs for
reading and writing NetInfo.
The API offers the notion of simple,
complex,
and custom authentication methods,
proof of identity.
So if you have a custom authentication
method that your particular
Directory system supports,
you can publish it and come up with
a scheme that clients could use it.
The Directory APIs are standard
C API and they're accessible from any
runtime other than classic on Mac OS X.
So a MachO binary, a Cocoa app,
a Carbon app.
We have a variety of applications
calling Directory Services.
We have the
Mac OS X Server administration software,
which is a Carbon application.
The Directory Setup calls Directory APIs.
That's a MachO binary Cocoa application.
And Directory Services calls itself,
which is running more
at the positive layer.
So we're fairly confident you
can call the Directory Services.
We call the Directory Service API from
pretty much anywhere
except classic on Mac OS X.
Part of the Directory Services provides
an abstraction for accessing.
It also provides an
abstraction for the data.
And this is where we get
some of the most questions.
So this year we've added this slide.
Hopefully we'll do more next year.
But the abstraction that
Directory Service presents is a notion
of directory nodes at the top level.
And those are groups
or collections of data.
If you had multiple
LDAP servers configured,
each one would manifest itself
as a single directory node in the
Directory Service Abstraction API.
Records come underneath nodes.
Records are contained within nodes.
They consist of names and types.
Attribute types with the
data and attribute values
come under attribute types.
We're going to go into that in
more detail in the next slides.
Directory Nodes.
Each Directory Node is published
by a plug-in and a single plug-in.
A plug-in can register
zero or more nodes.
You as a plug-in developer can register
as many Directory Nodes as you want that
you want to grant clients access to.
Hopefully you're matching that
to some reality of some kind.
But when someone opens a
Directory Node using the
Directory Service API,
it will dispatch to your plug-in and
you will then be responsible for all
calls regarding that Directory Node.
API calls to access Directory Nodes
from a client level are DSOpenDirNode,
DSGetDirNodeList, FindDirNodes,
and CloseDirNodes.
They're relatively straightforward.
So you as an API client,
if you wanted to work with a
particular LDAP Directory Node,
you would call OpenDirNode and now
you're talking to an LDAP server.
The important point is it doesn't matter
whether you're talking to an LDAP server,
an ActiveX server, or a NetInfo server,
OpenDirNode gets you the session
with that Directory Server regardless
of what the protocol is.
An example path of a Directory Node.
The directory plug-in would
be /ldapv2/ldap.company.com.
That's how we configure
our LDAP sessions.
So they are multi-path
and they are hierarchical.
So a directory plug-in can
represent a hierarchical
Directory System into Directory Services.
Records.
Records reside in Directory Nodes.
They consist of at least one
name and exactly one type.
A record cannot simultaneously
be a user and a group.
Maybe it can in some directories,
but not in the
Directory Service abstraction.
Examples of a record
name would be John Smith,
Jay Smith.
The important thing is
the at least one name.
Directory Services supports the
notion of multiple names per record.
And a sample record type is KDS,
Standard Record Type Users.
We have standard types defined
for obvious record types,
users, groups, printers, AFP servers,
web servers, whatever you use.
The records that you need to access can
be listed inside of a Directory Node.
API calls to access
records are DSOpenRecord,
DSGetRecordList, DSCreateRecord,
and DSCloseRecord.
There are more than that,
but that's some samples.
Attribute types.
Attribute types are
contained within records,
and these are essentially the descriptors
of what type of data you're fetching.
These are UID, home directory,
email address, phone number,
any type of data is represented
as an attribute type.
They're contained within records.
Each attribute type can
contain zero or more values.
An example attribute types
are KDSN adder record name,
KDSN adder home directory,
and KDS1 adder password.
The naming convention in
the API is consistent.
The KDSN attribute record
name is that means that
typically that's a multi-value.
There are N instances of a record name.
The KDS1 attribute password is that
means in general you can expect that that
attribute type would only have one value.
This is not enforced.
It should help you as a plug-in
developer and help you as a client
know how many values you have.
There are many different
pieces of data to expect for
a particular attribute type.
API calls used to access attribute
types are get attribute entry,
get record attribute info.
There are more than that.
Attribute values.
These are the actual blobs of data once
you get down through the hierarchy.
You've opened your directory node.
You've opened your record.
You've found the attribute
type you're interested in,
the phone number.
Where do I get the list of values?
Each instance of a phone number.
Those are attribute values.
Attribute values are contained
within the attribute.
Attribute values contain the raw
data specified by the attribute type.
Again, the attribute type can lead
you into expecting a certain
type of data and format.
The API calls used to access attribute
values are dsget attribute value,
dsget record attribute value by index,
and dsget record attribute value by ID.
These are all useful techniques and
had to be used in all of our software.
Come see me more if you want
to know the differences between
those types of attributes.
In particular,
directory services is data agnostic.
We treat all attribute
values as binary blobs.
If your directory is capable
of storing binary data,
we'll just pass it right
on through to your plug-in.
If your directory is incapable
of storing binary data,
it would be up to the plug-in to
make some sort of modification
to the data before it's stored
if it received binary data.
Directory services is data agnostic,
although we provide the tools for
you to discover and utilize the data.
[Transcript missing]
The API Model Usage.
The general model is that this allows,
by Directory Setup and this architecture,
allows Apple software to be configured to
use Directory of the customer's choice.
We only ask for standard record
types and their attributes.
Those standard record types
and attributes are documented
in the Directory Services and
Server Documentation.
This enables Apple and third-party
software to access any Directory system.
By now you should understand that.
Customers configure Directory access via
the Search Policy and Directory Setup.
Data Access by OS and Applications.
What type of data is typically
requested by the server software
and by the desktop software?
Well, obviously,
users and groups is a big winner.
But the Mac OS X desktop also
requests mount information
for specific file systems,
NFS and AFP, home directory information.
And in some cases,
host information comes out
of NetInfo or could come out
of LDAP by this architecture.
And that would be host
name and IP address.
The previous Mac OS X Server session,
if you weren't there,
I'd recommend you get the tape.
Greg Vaughn covered the issue that a
lot of the configuration information in
Mac OS X that normally is stored in /etc
on Unix has been migrated to NetInfo.
Well, that's an accurate and
inaccurate statement.
I'll say really what it's been
migrated to is Directory Services.
So now information or config
information stored in Mac OS X or
required by Mac OS X can be
accessed via Directory Services.
Apple plug-in usage and development.
Apple's developed three
basic Access plug-ins.
We've developed NetInfo.
That's our primary and
default Directory system.
LDAPv2,
read-only for Internet compatibility.
We get a lot of mileage
out of the LDAPv2.
We can talk to Active Directory.
We can talk to Novell.
We can talk to OpenLDAP.
We can talk to iPlanet.
So if you can find an
LDAP server to access your data,
you can get Directory Services to
access the data as well.
We also implemented the search policy
as a Directory Services plug-in.
That's another thing that gives us a
lot of confidence in this architecture.
We use the architecture
to solve our own problems.
Apple software products are
being tested with these plug-ins.
So if you're developing a plug-in
and you can make your plug-in behave
like any one of these plug-ins,
there's a very good chance
that it will work unmodified.
Apple Desktop and Server Software uses
the architecture to provide customer
directory flexibility and we're
really looking for developer plug-ins.
If you want to develop a
plug-in for Directory Services,
contact Tom Weir, contact me.
Please get to us.
You're going to need some help,
but we're going to provide it for you
and hopefully it'll be pretty simple.
At this time, I'd like to invite
Jason Townsen up on stage.
He's going to go into some of
the details of what it takes
to develop a Directory plug-in,
and I'll be back later
for a wrap-up and Q&A.
Thanks.
So I'm going to talk about
Directory plug-ins and the
main points we're going to
talk about are the structure,
how do you test your plug-in once
you've got it up and running,
and then a little more technical,
what are the entry points and
callbacks that you're interested
in as a Directory Services plug-in?
So plug-ins are dynamically
loaded code modules.
They're actually CF plug-ins.
So we use Core Foundation's
CF load function to load them.
and you have to provide
a set of entry points.
We'll go into detail on
what each of those is later.
And then you can call back into
Directory Services to do various things
like primarily registering the nodes
that you're going to provide service on.
So where does your plug-in
live in the system?
All of the plug-ins that
Apple provides are stored inside
the Directory Service framework
with that big,
long,
nasty path you see at the top there.
But that is generally considered
the place for only Apple plug-ins.
For your third-party plug-ins,
you should put them in
Library Directory Services plug-ins.
And that's guaranteed to be a writable
part of the file system for root,
and that's where we
will load plug-ins from.
The other thing to keep in mind
is you need to put the .dsplug
extension on your bundle so that
Directory Service daemon will load it.
Here's an example plug-in bundle.
You don't really need to
worry too much about this.
If you use Project Builder,
it's just a matter of creating a
CF plug-in and it will deal with
all the packaging issues for you.
The main thing you need to be
concerned about is the plist file,
which has some of the metadata
that we use to load your plug-in
and also to determine what app
we should use to configure your
plug-in when you're showing up in
Directory Setup and the user needs
to configure how your plugin works.
So we have some sample code we've
talked about before that is sort of a
starting point for you with your plug-in.
and it shows you stubs that you
would use for all the API calls.
So basically all you need to do
is fill in the functionality that
you're providing and we handle
setting up all of the callbacks and
show you how to use those as well.
So, configuring your plug-in.
There's two keys in your plist
file that are important for you
to set up for your plug-in to be
configurable in Directory Setup.
The first one is CFBundle config avail
and the second is CFBundle config file.
So, each of them is optional.
Basically, what will happen if,
for example,
you just want to provide a text file,
you can provide only the CFBundle config
file key and we will just launch that
text file with the default text editor,
probably TextEdit.
Alternately,
you could have an application
that you launch and just
provide CFBundle config avail.
If you provide both,
then we will launch the application
you specify with the file you specify.
And all this happens when your plug-in
is selected in Directory Setup and
you click the Configure button,
then we do this launching as appropriate.
So once you've got your
plug-in up and running,
how do you test it?
There is code on the system,
a lot of code on Mac OS X Server and even
personal file sharing on 10 Desktop uses
Directory Services extensively,
but it's probably better to
start out a little bit-- oh,
sorry, wrong slide.
So first, you've got to copy your plug-in
in to the appropriate location in
Library Directory Services plug-ins.
The other point to keep in mind is that
You need to kill and restart
the Directory Service process.
This is a daemon process.
There's no GUI per se for it,
so the easiest way to do this is just
use the terminal and kill and restart it.
And you need to be root
in order to do that,
because Directory Service needs to run
as root to access its log files and such.
Then you can take a look at the log
file and library logs to see that your
plug-in loaded successfully and we keep
other logging information in there.
So, what I was getting into before,
I was getting a little
bit ahead of myself.
When you're testing your plug-in,
it's better, instead of throwing a full
client at it to begin with,
it's better to actually control the
client side yourself as well and
use the APIs that you've provided.
So you can test a subset of
the Directory Service API that
you've created to that point.
For example,
you can leave out all of the right
portions and just test that you
can find a user with get record
list and you can do a DS do dirt
node auth to authenticate that user
rather than having to support all the
functions that a client would use.
Because sometimes,
even for a fairly simple operation,
there might be APIs in there
that you haven't implemented yet.
So just because things don't work
right off the bat doesn't mean
that you haven't done things right.
You just need to add all of
the appropriate calls in.
So we have a sample tool that has
these calls in there called DSTestTool
that comes with our SDK sample code.
And you can easily modify that
or use what's already there.
It does simple things
like look for a user,
create a user, and so on.
And you could also develop
your own test tool,
especially if your plug-in is going
to provide specific functionality
that's outside of the standard,
like custom auth methods,
then you might want to just develop
your own tool to test those things out.
So, what are the entry points?
We have Validate.
This is called once when
your plug-in is loaded.
The primary purpose of that is to provide
a token to your plug-in that you can
use later in all of your callbacks.
So that allows us to recognize
which plug-in is calling
back into Directory Services.
We call initialize on your plug-in
after all the plug-ins have loaded.
This is the point where you would
probably load up your config file or do
any startup initialization like that,
establish any persistent network
connections that you might need,
and so on.
Set plug-in state is called
when your plug-in is enabled or
disabled from Directory Setup.
And that'll tell you, okay,
your plug-in's now inactive.
You can go ahead and close down any
resources that you're using that you
don't need anymore or bring them back
online if you've been reactivated.
Process request,
this is where the bulk of the work is.
You can probably implement
all these other functions,
you know,
in a couple hours really easily.
And we've got, you know,
sample implementations.
We've got some sample
implementations in our sample code.
But process request is where
all the API calls come through.
So essentially that's going to look
like a big switch statement that
looks at what the actual request was.
And then based on that,
you'll probably hand it off to another
function to deal with the particular
request that's coming through.
And we're just stuffing all the
parameters that are coming in into a
big struct that you need to interpret.
Finally, shutdown is called just before
Directory Services shuts down.
So, again, another time to release any
resources that you're using before
the Directory Service process
goes away or save any changes
that you might need to save.
So the other half of it is the callbacks.
We have DS Register Node,
which is how you publish your nodes.
The guideline that we suggest you
follow is to prefix the name of
your node with your plug-in's name.
So the reason for this is that when
a client makes a dsopender node call,
We don't know which
plug-in to use for that.
So if the name starts with the
name of one of the plug-ins,
so for example, /netinfo/ldapv2 are the
plug-ins that we have,
then we can directly go to
that plug-in out of our table
and dispatch directly to you.
If you give it some other name,
of course there's the
possibility of collisions,
but the other thing is we have to
scan through the list of plug-ins
to find one that might handle it.
And depending upon what operations
the plug-ins do to handle Opener node,
it can be less efficient.
DSUnregisterNode is used when you want
to take a node out of the list that
you're no longer providing service on.
So if your config file changed and
that LDAP server is no longer there,
you would use that function.
And then we have DSDebugLog
to log debugging information.
That's an aid when you're
developing your plug-in.
So as I mentioned before,
the Directory Service daemon
runs as a root process.
And your plug-in is
considered a trusted entity.
So you really have to
use your power wisely.
It's not quite as bad as
working with a kernel,
but you can really do a lot of damage if
you don't know what you're doing as root.
So you need to make sure that
you limit your access to the
system to only what you need.
And also,
don't do anything on behalf of a
client that you're expecting the
system to prevent you from doing.
So in other words,
you're running in a UID zero process.
So anything you try to
do will probably succeed.
So if you want to provide
any kind of security,
then you need to be aware
of that in your plug-in.
And as I said before also,
you need to be logged in as root or
at least have a root shell available
to be able to develop a plug-in.
So this means on Mac OS X desktop
that you'll have to go into NetInfo
Manager and enable root to get access to
it or use sudo or other tools like that.
We also restrict
The plug-in directory,
Library Directory Services plug-ins
to only root access.
[Transcript missing]
So again,
take a look at the sample code on this,
and that will help you see where the
cleanup calls need to correspond.
And DSWrappers is a good example
of what you need to do to clean
up Directory Service structures.
So, again, if you're interested
in plug-in development,
please talk to Developer Relations.
We can help you with this and
we want to help you with that.
And also, take a look at the API and
plug-in documentation.
It's actually included with
the 10 developer tools.
So,
if you've installed 10 developer tools,
it's on your hard disk already.
Take a look at it.
It's very helpful in understanding the
API and we've got all the constants
and functions in there that you need.
Also,
if you're going to develop a plug-in,
you should look at our API and
decide how you're going to map our
abstraction onto your directory system.
So,
what is a node in your directory system?
What is a record?
And so on.
Alright, so now we're going to have
a demo of Directory Setup.
So can we switch over to Demo 1 please?
It's asleep.
Can we switch to demo one instead of two?
Yes.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Okay, so I have here actually
Mac OS X Server on this machine,
but as we said before,
Directory Setup is also
part of Mac OS X Desktop.
So let's take a look at Directory Setup.
You saw the screenshot earlier.
Basically, we come up showing you
the list of plug-ins.
And also, you notice that the
interface came up locked.
So this means that I need to click
the lock button to unlock it.
Because what we're doing here
in Directory Setup is actually
changing who can log into the system.
So we really don't want anyone doing
that other than an administrator.
So now that I've unlocked it,
I can make changes.
We have the ability to configure
NetInfo if you want to bind to a
NetInfo parent or just use the local.
Right now we're just using local.
Alright, let's take a look at LDAP.
I assure you this was working for
me before the session started.
So if you configure LDAP,
you get a list of LDAP servers.
And we can go ahead and add a new server.
Basically what we do here is we
specify what mappings we want to use.
So, and also what the
IP address is and so on.
So, say, test LDAP server.
You can put in an IP address
or a domain name in that field.
So I'll just put in an IP address.
Then we need to set up the mappings
that we're going to use for our
record types and our attribute types.
And this is kind of similar to
the way that the TCP control panel
works or the network setup works.
Basically, each line of this right text
box represents one mapping,
but you can have multiple lines,
so you can map things to
more than one search base.
For the record types,
we're using search bases as our mapping.
So you can change these
to whatever you want.
For the purposes of just
getting the file server working,
we really only need to
worry about users mapping.
And we can leave the others there
at their default or delete them.
It doesn't matter.
They're not actually necessary.
We also documented in the 10
server documentation for particular
services what you would need
to map in Directory Setup to
use that service with LDAP.
So then on the data or attribute types,
again, we have a list of our standard
types and you can map those to--
The types in LDAP that you
want to use and again it's
multiple mapping so each line
is one mapping.
So I could do, for example,
UID and CN for record name.
And then for real name I could do UID.
Actually, I really wanted to do CN,
so that's common name.
It's LDAP's abbreviation for
Then password, if you're using OpenLDAP,
for example, or some LDAP server that has
a crypt password stored in it,
then we can use that in the password
mapping and actually do a crypt
auth without sending a clear text
password out over the network.
So if your LDAP server has a crypt
password stored for its users,
it's a good idea to map that.
If you don't,
then we can still do LDAP bind,
but the security is better
if you're using crypt.
Then the final tab here is Access,
which allows you to configure whether
you want to use anonymous access to
talk to the LDAP server or specify
a distinguished name and password.
If you need to bind to the
server to do anything with it,
then this is important to set up.
So, for example, with Active Directory,
you would need to use this.
You can also specify the timeouts that
you're going to use and the port number
if you're using a non-standard port.
And then once you've
set up that LDAP server,
it shows up in your list.
You can enable it.
Let me see if I can bring up
Server Admin to show you some
more of what Mac OS X Server is
doing with Directory Services.
Alright, so this is the server
admin for Mac OS X Server.
It might look slightly familiar to you
if you've worked with Apple Share IP,
recent versions.
So the primary integration I wanted
to show you is in Users and Groups.
So all of the Users and
Groups information
is Access through Directory Services and
when we're populating the
local NetInfo database,
we use Directory Services to
put that information in.
So if I create a user, for example, then
That would be using
Directory Service calls
to set the password,
to set all the attributes that
our services need to be in there,
and so on.
And now once I've created a user there,
again,
it's available to all the services.
The other thing we have in Users and
Groups is the ability to use
"To search on the search path,
for example.
So now that I've added that user,
I can see that they actually
are on the search path."
Okay.
So basically this just illustrates
that the Directory Service APIs provide
everything you need even to do
a full GUI like this and both
create the data and access it.
Although, you know,
for Directory Services clients,
you probably would mostly be
interested in just getting at the
user names and doing authentication,
but you can also populate the
database too if you need to.
I think I'll go ahead and stop
there since Directory Setup
doesn't seem to be happy today.
I'll go ahead and turn it back over
to David O'Rourke to finish up.
I think we took a risk booting
off the FireWire drive.
For those of you who know it's
not technically supported.
That ends the demo.
We're going to do a wrap-up.
Whoops, I have this upside down.
Directory Services wrap-up.
So Directory Services and
other app or technologies.
This is a lower level technology,
but it can be used to build
some high level solutions.
But it complements other technologies and
it provides common framework for higher
level software to access directory data.
Another complement to
this is the NSL talk,
Network Service Location.
I'd recommend highly that you all
attend that tomorrow if you're
interested in Directory Services.
There's some exciting
integration going on there.
The opportunities for developers are to
directory enable your client software.
As you saw, you could use the
Mac OS X Server Administration to
populate a local NetInfo database.
And then using the Directory APIs,
your application would inherit
all the users set up by
Mac OS X Server Administration.
If the user had configured the
search policy to access LDAP,
your application would access LDAP.
So there's a lot of benefit
in you enabling that.
In addition,
you could provide alternatives
to Apple software by either
providing a competing web
server or competing file server,
but still leverage the technology,
the setup technology,
and you can provide value by
adding a directory plug-in.
Directory plug-in is
clearly an opportunity.
We're actively looking for anybody
willing to develop a directory plug-in.
We think there's opportunities
here for people to either promote
their own directory service or to
access existing infrastructure.
And again,
the Mac OS X Server Administration client
uses Directory Services.
If your plug-in is read right,
there's integration there that our
Mac OS X Administration software
could actually be used to set
up users in your directory.
So the key message is we're using this
architecture for our own software.
The Directory Service APIs brings
directory access to all of
Apple's software platforms.
Customers are leveraging this API.
We already have some
customers using LDAP.
There's some very large installations.
There's one customer in
particular that has over 2
million users in an LDAP server.
They took the Mac OS X Server package,
unpacked it, configured their LDAP server
in Directory Setup,
added it to the search policy,
and promptly logged on as any
one of those users that they
actually knew the password of.
And so opportunities exist for
you to base your application on
Directory Services or develop
your own directory services.
services or develop a plugin.
and David O'Rourke, Jason Townsen,
and David O'Rourke,